Source: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sentinel/overview
Scraped: 2025-12-22 20:56:15
================================================================================

What is Microsoft Sentinel SIEM? | Microsoft Learn
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Microsoft Sentinel security information and event management (SIEM)?
Microsoft Sentinel is a cloud-native SIEM solution that delivers scalable, cost-efficient security across multicloud and multiplatform environments. It combines AI, automation, and threat intelligence to support threat detection, investigation, response, and proactive hunting.
Microsoft Sentinel SIEM empowers analysts to anticipate and stop attacks across clouds and platforms, faster and with greater precision.
This article highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel.
Microsoft Sentinel inherits the Azure Monitor
tamper-proofing and immutability
practices. While Azure Monitor is an append-only data platform, it includes provisions to delete data for compliance purposes.
This service supports
, which lets service providers sign in to their own tenant to manage subscriptions and resource groups that customers have delegated.
Enable out of the box security content
Microsoft Sentinel provides security content packaged in SIEM solutions that enable you to ingest data, monitor, alert, hunt, investigate, respond, and connect with different products, platforms, and services.
For more information, see
About Microsoft Sentinel content and solutions
Collect data at scale
Collect data across all users, devices, applications, and infrastructure, both on-premises and in multiple clouds.
This table highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel for data collection.
Out of the box data connectors
Many connectors are packaged with SIEM solutions for Microsoft Sentinel and provide real-time integration. These connectors include Microsoft sources and Azure sources like Microsoft Entra ID, Azure Activity, Azure Storage, and more.
Out of the box connectors are also available for the broader security and applications ecosystems for non-Microsoft solutions. You can also use common event format, Syslog, or REST-API to connect your data sources with Microsoft Sentinel.
Microsoft Sentinel data connectors
Microsoft Sentinel supports ingesting data from some sources without a dedicated connector. If you're unable to connect your data source to Microsoft Sentinel using an existing solution, create your own data source connector.
Resources for creating Microsoft Sentinel custom connectors
Microsoft Sentinel uses both query time and ingestion time normalization to translate various sources into a uniform, normalized view.
Normalization and the Advanced Security Information Model (ASIM)
Detect previously undetected threats and minimize false positives using Microsoft's analytics and unparalleled threat intelligence.
This table highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel for threat detection.
Helps you reduce noise and minimize the number of alerts you have to review and investigate. Microsoft Sentinel uses analytics to group alerts into incidents. Use the out of the box analytic rules as-is, or as a starting point to build your own rules. Microsoft Sentinel also provides rules to map your network behavior and then look for anomalies across your resources. These analytics connect the dots, by combining low fidelity alerts about different entities into potential high-fidelity security incidents.
Detect threats out-of-the-box
MITRE ATT&CK coverage
Microsoft Sentinel analyzes ingested data, not only to detect threats and help you investigate, but also to visualize the nature and coverage of your organization's security status based on the tactics and techniques from the MITRE ATT&CK® framework.
Understand security coverage by the MITRE ATT&CK® framework
Integrate numerous sources of threat intelligence into Microsoft Sentinel to detect malicious activity in your environment and provide context to security investigators for informed response decisions.
Threat intelligence in Microsoft Sentinel
Correlate data from a data source you provide, a watchlist, with the events in your Microsoft Sentinel environment. For example, you might create a watchlist with a list of high-value assets, terminated employees, or service accounts in your environment. Use watchlists in your search, detection rules, threat hunting, and response playbooks.
Watchlists in Microsoft Sentinel
Create interactive visual reports by using workbooks. Microsoft Sentinel comes with built-in workbook templates that allow you to quickly gain insights across your data as soon as you connect a data source. Or, create your own custom workbooks.
Visualize collected data
Investigate threats with artificial intelligence, and hunt for suspicious activities at scale, tapping into years of cyber security work at Microsoft.
This table highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel for threat investigation.
Microsoft Sentinel deep investigation tools help you to understand the scope and find the root cause of a potential security threat. You can choose an entity on the interactive graph to ask interesting questions for a specific entity, and drill down into that entity and its connections to get to the root cause of the threat.
Navigate and investigate incidents in Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft Sentinel's powerful hunting search-and-query tools, based on the MITRE framework, enable you to proactively hunt for security threats across your organization’s data sources, before an alert is triggered. Create custom detection rules based on your hunting query. Then, surface those insights as alerts to your security incident responders.
Threat hunting in Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft Sentinel supports Jupyter notebooks in Azure Machine Learning workspaces, including full libraries for machine learning, visualization, and data analysis.
Use notebooks in Microsoft Sentinel to extend the scope of what you can do with Microsoft Sentinel data. For example:
- Perform analytics that aren't built in to Microsoft Sentinel, such as some Python machine learning features.
- Create data visualizations that aren't built in to Microsoft Sentinel, such as custom timelines and process trees.
- Integrate data sources outside of Microsoft Sentinel, such as an on-premises data set.
Jupyter notebooks with Microsoft Sentinel hunting capabilities
Respond to incidents rapidly
Automate your common tasks and simplify security orchestration with playbooks that integrate with Azure services and your existing tools. Microsoft Sentinel's automation and orchestration provides a highly extensible architecture that enables scalable automation as new technologies and threats emerge.
Playbooks in Microsoft Sentinel are based on workflows built in Azure Logic Apps. For example, if you use the ServiceNow ticketing system, use Azure Logic Apps to automate your workflows and open a ticket in ServiceNow each time a particular alert or incident is generated.
This table highlights the key capabilities in Microsoft Sentinel for threat response.
Centrally manage the automation of incident handling in Microsoft Sentinel by defining and coordinating a small set of rules that cover different scenarios.
Automate threat response in Microsoft Sentinel with automation rules
Automate and orchestrate your threat response by using playbooks, which are a collection of remediation actions. Run a playbook on-demand or automatically in response to specific alerts or incidents, when triggered by an automation rule.
To build playbooks with Azure Logic Apps, choose from a constantly expanding gallery of connectors for various services and systems like ServiceNow, Jira, and more. These connectors allow you to apply any custom logic in your workflow.
Automate threat response with playbooks in Microsoft Sentinel
List of all Logic App connectors
Microsoft Sentinel in the Azure portal retirement timeline
Microsoft Sentinel is
generally available in the Microsoft Defender portal
, including for customers without Microsoft Defender XDR or an E5 license. This means that you can use Microsoft Sentinel in the Defender portal even if you aren't using other Microsoft Defender services.
, Microsoft Sentinel will be supported in the Defender portal only, and any remaining customers using the Azure portal will be automatically redirected.
If you're currently using Microsoft Sentinel in the Azure portal, we recommend that you start planning your transition to the Defender portal now to ensure a smooth transition and take full advantage of the
unified security operations experience offered by Microsoft Defender
For more information, see:
Microsoft Sentinel in the Microsoft Defender portal
Transition your Microsoft Sentinel environment to the Defender portal
Planning your move to Microsoft Defender portal for all Microsoft Sentinel customers
Changes for new customers starting July 2025
For the sake of the changes described in this section, new Microsoft Sentinel customers are customers who are
onboarding the first workspace in their tenant to Microsoft Sentinel
, such new customers who also have the permissions of a subscription
User access administrator
, and are not Azure Lighthouse-delegated users, have their workspaces automatically onboarded to the Defender portal together with onboarding to Microsoft Sentinel.
Users of such workspaces, who also aren't Azure Lighthouse-delegated users, see links in Microsoft Sentinel in the Azure portal that redirect them to the Defender portal.
Such users use Microsoft Sentinel in the Defender portal only.
New customers who don't have relevant permissions aren't automatically onboarded to the Defender portal, but they do still see redirection links in the Azure portal, together with prompts to have a user with relevant permissions manually onboard the workspace to the Defender portal.
This table summarizes these experiences:
creating new workspaces in a tenant where there is already a workspace enabled for Microsoft Sentinel
Workspaces are not automatically onboarded, and users don't see redirection links
Azure Lighthouse-delegated users
creating new workspaces in any tenant
Workspaces are not automatically onboarded, and users don't see redirection links
onboarding the first workspace in their tenant to Microsoft Sentinel
Users who have the required permissions
have their workspace automatically onboarded. Other users of such workspaces see redirection links in the Azure portal.
Users who don't have the required permissions
don't have their workspace automatically onboarded. All users of such workspaces see redirection links in the Azure portal, and a user with the required permissions must onboard the workspace to the Defender portal.
Onboard Microsoft Sentinel
Deployment guide for Microsoft Sentinel
Plan costs and understand Microsoft Sentinel pricing and billing
Was this page helpful?
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?